# Known Challenges and Limitations

There are known challenges and limitations in capabilities provided by CG DevX. Solving some of them will make the platform more opinionated and experience tailored to a specific case, which we want to avoid. This allows us to draw a fine line on things that we want to provide with the reference implementation and customization that should be done on top of it. You could think of it in the most complex cases as a fork of the platform, which we don't want to do. Those customizations could also make further updates of the "fork" hard or even impossible. This sets a first line in a shared responsibility model between us as builders of CG DevX, and users of CG DevX.

When building an Internal Developer Platform using CG DevX, there is a second line dividing responsibility between operators (AKA a platform team) and developers, where some responsibilities could also be shared. This division of responsibility is organization-specific and should be defined by the user of the CG DevX.

The list below describes known challenges and our vision on means to manage them, and responsibility.

## Runtime

- **Data Persistence**: It is still challenging even with persistent volumes. We do not recommend running non-fault-tolerant stateful components (DBs).
- **Data Security**: We provide encryption at rest and in transit for all CG DevX internal components and underlying services plus provide fine-grained RBAC policies, still storing sensitive data in containers or persistent volumes is not secure.
- **Data Backup and Recovery**: Currently we do not provide a built-in mechanism for Persistent Volumes (PV) data backup and recovery. To ensure that data is not lost in the event of a disaster, you should implement a backup and recovery strategy including offloading data to a separate location, and testing recovery procedures regularly.
- **Data Management**: CG DevX internal components like a logging and monitoring system have default lifecycle policies built-in. Responsibility for data produced by workloads is solely on the user of the platform, so you will need to implement data management practices (data lifecycle, archiving data, consistency monitoring, etc.) yourself.
- **Data Compliance**: Responsibility for data produced by workloads is solely on the user of the platform, so you may need to implement specific data privacy and security measures, including data masking, data retention policies, or data sovereignty.

## VCS

- **Collaboration and Branching Strategy**: Working in a distributed team is not possible without a proper VCS. While changes done to different parts of the system are quite easy to manage, when those changes are linked or depend on each other and done by different teams, it becomes really hard to track and integrate them without proper conventions. We expect teams to use the GitFlow approach for all the IaC code and GitOps manifests (GitOps repositories) and do a cross-team code review for such changes. We strongly suggest using GitFlow for the workload codebase as it's already supported by the platform, but teams could also use the Trunk-based development approach.
  - **Versioning**: Tracking versions, especially when other services depend on your specific package, could be quite challenging and could become messy. To simplify a standardized versioning process, we utilize semantic versioning and enforce its usage for deployments and Helm charts and strongly recommend using it for your workloads.
  - **History**: Version Control System (VCS) should provide a clean and human-readable history of changes. To enable this, all the developers should follow the same convention when working with the source code. We strongly recommend following the Conventional Commits convention for commit messages.
  - **Changelog**: VCS should provide users a detailed view of changes associated with a specific version of artifacts, which enables developers to quickly identify potential issues associated with the change. With the usage of Conventional Commits, changelogs could be generated automatically.

## IaC

- **Security & Compliance Requirements**: Infrastructure is a matter of compliance fit. Thoughtful implementation of IaC enables security and compliance checks against code to detect potential issues faster. CG DevX provides a mechanism of policy/compliance as code checks according to security best practices. It’s a user's responsibility to implement specific security and compliance checks using provided mechanisms.
- **Infrastructure Ownership**: Infrastructure is a core part of Business Service. CG DevX platform is a core infrastructure component holding multiple critical business products. The shift-left approach sets a clear assignment of infrastructure ownership, where operators are responsible for core platform services and development teams - for workloads and other cloud services provisioned via the platform those services depend on.
- **Integration with Existing Resources**: Customers may or may not have IaC used. Furthermore, if IaC is used, it may have various forms - Terraform, Crossplane, Pulumi, CloudFormation, etc. To be fully integrated with the platform when onboarding a workload, existing resources should be either imported into Terraform (or Crossplane for Workloads) or recreated. CG DevX provides an inventory of all resources and services in the form of remote Terraform state that could be consumed by other tools.
- **Deployment into Existing Infrastructure**: Some customers may already have existing Kubernetes cluster(s). While it’s technically possible to install CG DevX components onto existing clusters, we cannot guarantee the integrity of the platform and uncompromised function of its core features, especially in the DevSecOps domain, thus decided not to support such a scenario.

## IaC Automation

- **Identifying and Fixing Security Issues**: Security misconfigurations are the #1 type of incident as per-security reports. In a pipeline, the earlier you perform security scanning and testing, the more freedom operators and developers will have to accommodate all security feedback. With CG DevX all the necessary checks are built into the pipeline, so security is an integral part of your code, not an add-on feature. Configuration of those features is up to the user of CG DevX.
- **Access Management**: In cloud-native deployments compared to classic ones, access management has higher associated security risks. Integrating the necessary security checks into a delivery pipeline will improve overall security and simplify migration towards zero trust. With CG DevX IAM policies (role bindings and policy metadata) are written down as code and managed using the same process as the rest of the infrastructure. Access to infrastructure could be restricted or reduced to read-only access as all the changes are applied using change management automation. Changes sign-off is done by peer review reducing security risks.
- **Audit Logs**: Audit trails are a big part of SOC2, HIPPA, and PCI compliance. There is a misconception that it could only be achieved by using specialized systems. When implemented correctly, your VCS change log could be leveraged as an audit trail. CG DevX IaC PR automation provides a full change log as part of VCS history that could also be offloaded to other storage.
- **Upgrades/Migrations of Stateful Infrastructure Components**: Stateful components, especially data stores and databases vs GitOps and immutable infrastructure. Given all pros and cons of approaches, with CG DevX we mostly rely on immutable infrastructure to get better repeatability, reduce chances of configuration drift, and have versioning with change history. We only support in-place updates and configuration management for K8s cluster upgrades. We strongly recommend that you use managed cloud resources where all the maintenance and update procedures are done by the cloud provider.
- **Cross-Components Dependencies**: Modern cloud-native applications look like a web of interdependent services, especially when adopting microservices architecture. On top of that, you have cloud-native services and external 3rd party services, like payment gateways, your application depends on. When any of these dependencies fail, it can have cascading impacts on the rest of your services and on the application as a whole. With CG DevX, your dependencies on cloud services are documented as IaC and tagged properly. It’s your responsibility as a user to keep track of your application dependencies. CG DevX could be extended by Cloud Assets Catalog, as it's not a part of standard installation.
- **Drift Detection**: Drift refers to the deviation of actual infrastructure from its intended or expected state. This can occur due to various reasons, such as manual configuration changes, human error, etc. Drift can result in configuration inconsistencies, security vulnerabilities, and performance issues, making it essential to detect and correct it as soon as possible. CG DevX could detect drift for resources provisioned via platform IaC and highlight it in special reports using tools that scan and analyze the infrastructure. While we include resources not provisioned via IaC as part of those reports, we could not detect changes unless resources are imported to and managed by platform IaC solution.

## Workload CI

- **Feature Velocity Issues**: Multiple factors could contribute to delays in release cycles. It could happen due to lack of automation, code quality, team motivation, etc. CG DevX provides a fully automated delivery pipeline and provides a detailed view on Lead Time for Changes and Deployment Frequency as part of DORA key metrics.
- **Flawed Automated Testing**: Automated tests with no automation are being spoiled over time. They must be incorporated into CI pipelines and closely monitored. CG DevX provides well-defined extension points in CI pipelines to integrate quality gates such as automated tests. The code coverage metric is tracked using integration with a Static Code Analysis component. It’s your responsibility as a user to track Functional coverage of your tests. Our default CI pipeline has predefined quality gate rules based on code coverage and the percentage of passed tests.
- **Security Vulnerabilities**: Vulnerabilities in contrast to bugs are usually unseen unless they were exposed. Shifting security to the left is the first and foremost priority. With CG DevX all the necessary checks are built into the pipeline, so security is an integral part of your code, not an add-on feature. We strongly recommend taking a step further and using Vulnerability Scanner plugins for IDE, like one for Trivy from Aqua Security.
- **CI Process Visibility**: CI may generate an excessive amount of logs that have little to no business value. Therefore, specific metrics (KPIs) and events must be identified and agreed on, and this list should be reviewed with each change to the pipeline. CG DevX has a predefined set of metrics and events collected by the system out of the box to enable DORA key metrics.
- **Collaboration Process**: Proper branching strategy and naming conventions are the prerequisites for successful CI implementation. Lack of those attributes increases mess in a software delivery process and sometimes becomes detrimental rather than helpful. To simplify and standardize the process, we recommend using GitFlow, semantic versioning, and conventional commits.
- **Integration with Other Tools**: Automation requires explicit flows across the sequence of tools in the software development lifecycle to ensure actionable feedback and improvements. CG DevX CI pipeline consists of pre-defined building blocks and provides clear and well-defined extension points.

## Workload CD

- **Multi-Tenancy**: In a K8s context, multi-tenancy is when multiple teams are working on different projects in the same environment. With highly configurable access control CG DevX will restrict deployments to a specific namespace and user access to specific pipelines. RBAC configurations are automatically generated when provisioning new workloads via CG DevX CLI.
- **Monitoring and Alerting**: Out of the box CD metrics such as application reconciliation performance, the controller queue depth, and the number of application sync operations will be available via CG DevX observability.
- **Poor Communication Across Teams**: Situations when teams rely on tribal knowledge of deployment details and dates could pose a serious threat to the quality of the service. With CG DevX we try to solve this by providing a high degree of automation and transparency of delivery pipelines. Adoption of proper change management and notification mechanisms is the responsibility of the user of the platform.
- **Configuration Drift**: Configuration differences between the target cluster of a deployment pipeline can cause it to fail. CG DevX CD module could detect configuration drifts. While out-of-the-box security policy will not allow users to change configuration directly in the cluster, it is the user's responsibility to ensure those policies are not altered. The CD module could auto-sync changes done directly in the cluster back to the GitOps repository, but we strongly suggest not using this option as it will reduce visibility and trackability of changes.
- **Repository Management**: According to many best practices, application code, Kubernetes manifests, and IaC code should be separated as it simplifies management, helps keep a clean audit trail, and controls access. There is no one size fits all approach here. To compromise between all pros and cons we provide two repositories per workload, one for application source code, and another for Kubernetes manifests, Helm charts, and IaC.

## Workload Code Quality

- **No Common Code Quality Standards**: To produce clean and maintainable code, the organization should understand the importance of and adopt code quality standards. CG DevX Code Quality module could facilitate standard adoption, but full responsibility lies on the organization.
- **Code Quality**: Each programming language has its definition of code quality. In some cases, those definitions should be adjusted or extended. CG DevX Code Quality ships with predefined code quality rules based on industry standards and best practices for each supported programming language. While there is a default one, developers should pick the set of rules they are going to use.
- **Quality Gates**: Quality Gates define a set of conditions to be met for code quality to be considered sufficient. We suggest using Quality Gates that mandate that all new code must include at least 80% test coverage, and no diagnosed security issues and provide a default configuration with those rules. We do not enforce this Quality Gate and developers should decide what exact rules and values they are going to use.
- **False-Positives**: Not all analysis rules are equally suitable in each situation and could produce false positives. Lots of them may overwhelm developers making it difficult to focus on other more important fixes. Each team should adjust default code quality rules to reduce the number of false positives.
- **Unit Test Coverage Reports**: Test coverage information could greatly improve understanding of code quality. CG DevX Code Quality module does not generate the coverage report itself. The user must set up a language-specific tool to calculate and produce a code coverage report as part of the delivery pipeline. We do provide configuration samples for GitHub and Argo Workflows that could be reused.

## Artifact Management

- **Ownership and Lineage Tracking**: To enable cost tracking and simplify the process of incident response, all the resources should have strict assigned owners, and other associated metadata. CG DevX Artifacts management stores artifact metadata such as build history, dependencies, readme, and other user-defined information. The user is responsible for setting all the necessary metadata in addition to the one set by default and required by the pipeline to operate.
- **Lifecycle Management**: CI/CD pipeline could produce dozens of artifacts that could require a significant amount of storage. Artifacts lifecycle management and storage quotas should be implemented to keep storage under control and comply with organizational standards. We provide an automated clean-up process and an easy way to set storage quotas per workload.
- **Vulnerability Scanning**: It’s important to have a multi-layer vulnerability detection system and check artifacts on each step of the delivery pipeline. We provide static analysis of vulnerabilities with Trivy out of the box, and it’s possible to connect additional scanners if required by compliance.
- **Disaster Recovery**: To enable recovery of the system in case of region failure, all the artifacts should be offloaded to a different region. With CG DevX Artifacts management, artifacts could be replicated to different artifact stores in different locations.
- **Public Registry Request Limits and Latency**: Certain artifacts must always be available for the production environment to pull them. Latency of downloading artifacts and public registry rate limits could affect production RTO. CG DevX Artifacts management could serve as a local cache for publicly available artifacts. This also covers a scenario when the public registry becomes unavailable.

## DevSecOps

- **Issues Overload**: High volumes of potential vulnerabilities and misconfigurations make it difficult to focus on the most important issues. Without risk-based prioritization, developers might spend time on issues that might not even represent a risk to the organization. CG DevX DevSecOps modules could provide priority for some issues, but they should only be considered as recommendations.
- **Balancing Speed and Security**: Modern development is all about speed and agility, and every team needs to keep pace. While CG DevX provides a security foundation that is agile, adaptable, and fast it could not cover all the potential risks and standards. The user is responsible for building those additional capabilities on top of the existing foundation.
- **Lack of Resources and Knowledge Gap**: Most organizations lack adequate working knowledge of DevSecOps practices. With limited resources, bridging this gap becomes even more difficult. CG DevX provides a common platform for operators and developers to collaborate with security teams or security consultants. While we provide the implementation of security best practices, it will not be able to fully compensate for knowledge gaps.
- **Roles and Responsibility Alignment**: It is challenging to align roles and responsibilities in dynamic environments. CG DevX follows a shift-left approach where developers and operators are responsible for the security of their workloads and the platform and provides a set of measures to give security feedback at all stages of the delivery pipeline and as early as possible.
- **Workload Cloud Services Dependency**: Cloud services have high complexity associated with them, especially when integrating with security tools that were not designed to be cloud-native. As CG DevX DevSecOps primarily focuses on workload code, its dependencies, container runtime, and associated manifests it could not provide full coverage for all workload-specific cloud-native services, especially when the workload relies on many of them.

## Monitoring

- **Complexity**: IDP is a system of services considered a Complex System and is composed of a large number of simple parts. There are a significant amount of interconnections and interactions between parts and at different space and time scales. The whole platform and workloads become adaptive and respond to changes in the environment as well as the system itself. With lots of dynamic monitoring solutions should adopt those changes and continuously track the state of the whole system. CG DevX Monitoring module provides a unified way of metric collection, automated services discovery, and health checks that are automatically applied when the platform scales in and out.
- **Clustered Environment**: When platform and workload components are located at different places (services, compute nodes, etc.) and packed together, monitoring becomes a challenge. It becomes critical to properly track and attribute resource usage as one application could cause failures in others, and operators and developers should be able to quickly identify and resolve the root cause. CG DevX Monitoring module provides an easy way to zoom into a specific cluster/node/namespace/pod helping you to identify “noisy neighbors”.
- **Data Volume and Retention Periods**: When unmanaged data tend to grow and consume a tremendous amount of resources to store, process, and be searchable. Reducing the number of metrics you collect and process makes it easier to manage and analyze. CG DevX collects only the most critical metrics to reduce data volume, also metrics of internal components have a 14-day retention period by default. When introducing new metrics, users of the platform should understand and be accountable for the additional resources required to process new data.
- **Shared Services**: Sharing services enables optimum utilization of resources. On the other hand, monitoring shared applications is quite challenging. The risk lies in the fact that more consumption of resources by one application would affect the performance of other applications. This is especially true for multi-tenant applications. CG DevX provides continuous monitoring and labeling for all the services. For shared services as part of workloads, users are required to properly configure monitoring dashboards and labeling so that they could track and attribute usage to a specific workload.
- **Monitor Workload Resources**: Most workloads have dependencies on other cloud resources that due to reliability, availability, or compliance reasons could not be running on a Kubernetes-based runtime. CG DevX Monitoring module automatically collects metrics exposed by cloud-native services provisioned by CG DevX IaC module when they are provisioned using cloud-native monitoring mechanisms provided by the cloud provider and forwarding all the metrics into the Monitoring module. It also creates a minimal set of alarms as a backup circuit for the monitoring pipeline running within the platform. When resources are not provisioned via CG DevX IaC user takes full responsibility for monitoring them by using cloud-native or third-party monitoring solutions or plugging them into CG DevX Monitoring.
- **Workload Rightsizing**: The process of matching actual workload resource requirements with estimations is really hard especially for new applications. Also, requirements tend to change over time. CG DevX provides a detailed utilization dashboard on the cluster, cluster node, workload (Kubernetes namespace), and service within the workload (Kubernetes pod) levels and recommendations on resource rightsizing and associated cost savings. More detailed cost visibility dashboards and cost-saving recommendations could be provided by CG DevX Cost Visibility.

## Log Management

- **Sensitive Data**: It's vital to obfuscate PII and other sensitive data in your logs because you can ensure confidentiality and integrity of the data while continuing to use logs to analyze system behavior and troubleshoot issues. You can mitigate the risk of data breaches and unauthorized access and still get your ongoing debugging work done. We remove sensitive data such as secrets from delivery pipeline logs. Users of the platform should implement additional log obfuscation rules and mechanisms for their workloads.
- **Balance Security/Usability/Log Size**: To make sure the logs remain a valuable tool for monitoring system performance and troubleshooting, it’s crucial to balance security/usability and log size, and in most cases, you need to compromise. We remove all non-critical and sensitive data from CG DevX core component logs. Users of the platform are responsible for defining the amount of logs they want to store and implementing additional log obfuscation rules for their workloads.
- **Log Size and Retention Periods**: When unmanaged, logs data tend to grow and consume a tremendous amount of resources to store, process, and be searchable. In some cases, compliance requirements are the driving factor behind high retention periods. Reducing log sizes makes them easier to manage and analyze. Making logs non-indexable by moving them to cold storage could save resources and allow complying with store time requirements. Log data of CG DevX internal components has a 14-day retention period by default. Out of the box, we do not provide a mechanism to offload data to cold storage, such functionality could be easily added on top of the existing log management pipeline.
- **Collecting Logs for Workload Resources Provisioned via IaC**: To simplify troubleshooting all the logs should be stored and processed uniformly. When new cloud services are provisioned using CG DevX IaC, we will automatically configure cloud-native logging, and ingest those logs.

## Incident Response

- **Lack of Context About the Incident**: When the incident lacks contextual information, the response team struggles to understand the full scale of the problem, make the initial diagnosis, assess the priority, and communicate to the other responders, management, and customers. CG DevX provides environment, workload, and service ownership information, infrastructure and workload metrics, and logs. Users of the platform could extend that information by applying additional tags on resources and services that will be available during the incident. Extended metadata could also be provided with Cloud Asset Catalog that could be additionally implemented alongside CG DevX platform installation.
- **Lack of Prioritization**: Organizations operate with limited resources. Lack of a prioritization scheme can cause response teams to spend most of their time on alerts that may not involve any threat depleting those resources. With the reference implementation of the process, all the incidents in CG DevX have the highest priority, and an incident response team should prioritize incidents as they process them. Users of the platform could set a default priority based on incident type or source, or other meta-information to simplify their workflow and reduce the number of priority one incidents.
- **Tools for Communication and Escalation**: When a major incident occurs, you need to communicate quickly and effectively as success depends on getting the involvement of the right people at the right time. CG DevX provides out-of-the-box integration with a paging system, allowing to effectively patch in the right people when they are required. You could also notify people using a preferred communication channel via event notification integrations using emails or Slack chat.
